ISPN-13260 planning and performance docs (#9512)
infinispan/infinispan: documentation/src/main/asciidoc/topics/con_performance_client_listeners.adoc

[id='performance-client-listeners_{context}']
= Client listeners

Client listeners provide notifications whenever data is added, removed, or modified on your {brandname} cluster.

As an example, the following implementation triggers an event whenever temperatures change at a given location:

[source,java,options="nowrap",subs=attributes+]
----
include::code_examples/TemperatureMonitor.java[]
----

Adding listeners to {brandname} clusters adds performance considerations for your deployment.

For embedded caches, listeners use the same CPU cores as {brandname}.

> If listeners continually trigger events it constrains resources shared with {brandname}, reducing processing power and slowing down all other operations.

Reviewer: Nitpicking again, but listeners don't trigger events, they just receive events triggered by write operations or by expired entries.  How about

```suggestion
Listeners receiving many events and spending a lot of CPU to process those events reduce the CPU available to {brandmane} and slow down all other operations.
```

For remote caches, {brandname} Server uses an internal process to trigger client notifications.
{brandname} Server sends the event from the primary owner node to the node where the listener is registered before sending it to the client.
{brandname} Server also includes a backpressure mechanism that delays write operations to caches if client listeners process events too slowly.

.Filtering listener events

If listeners are invoked on every write operation, {brandname} can generate a high number of events that creates traffic to clients across the network.
It all depends on how many clients are registered with each listener, the type of events they trigger, and how data changes on your {brandname} cluster.

> As an example with remote caches, if you have ten clients registered with a listener that emits ten events, {brandname} Server sends 100 events in total across the network.

Author: @danberindei you mean s/ten/10 right?
